Famous for its abundance and exquisite, Chinese food culture has occupied an important part in the nation's tradition cultures. China is of long history with a vast territory. Due to the diversity of the climate, products and customs, there are widely different food styles and taste in local regions. Through creation by past dynasties, the long standing cooking art has formed rich and colorful local dishes. Among them, "the eight major dishes" enjoys the upper reputation, which consists of Shangdong, Chekiang, Sichuan, Jiangshu, Guangdong, Hunan, Fujian and Anhwei. 
Shandong dishes are divided into two factions as Tsinan and Jiaodong dishes. They are good at clear dishes, pure but not greasy. Sichuan dishes have enjoyed the fame that every dish has its own characteristic and none two share the same taste. They are also famous for pocked, peppery and savor taste. Chengdu and Chongqing dishes are two mail branches. 
Jiangsu dishes lay stress on the original taste with proper sweetness and salty. They consist of Yangzhou, Suzhou and Nanking branches. Chekiang dishes are both delicious and sweet smelling, both soft and slide, clean and not greasy. They consist of Hangzhou, Ningbo and Shaoxing branches. Guangdong dishes have Guangzhou, Chaozhou and Dongjiang three styles of dishes. They are good at choice seafood and pay more attention to the cooking skills. They act carefully at light food with tender and slide taste, from which they earn the praise of " It has a best taste in only in Guangzhou." Hunan dishes consist of Xiangjian, Dongting Lake and Xiangxi coteau three local dishes. Their tastes lay stress on thick, arid and peppery food, mostly using seasoning like hot peppery, shallot and capsicum. Minghou, Fuzhou Ximen and Quanzhou dishes are the representatives of Fujian dishes. They use choice seafood as the main material with elaborately cooks beautiful color and delicious taste of oil. They are good at frying, gliding, decocting and pay attention to the dishes' sweetness, salty, and the appearance. The most distinct features are their "pickled taste". Anhwui dishes pay more attention to the taste, color of dishes and the temperature to cook them. They are expert in cooking delicacies from mountains and sea. In addition to the eight major dishes, there are Beijing dishes, shanghai dishes, Hubei dishes, liangning dishes, Henan dishes which also enjoy great reputation. What's more, the steamed dishes and vegetable dishes have their own charms. Actually, Chinese dishes have earned world's fame. The Chinese eateries could be found everywhere throughout the world. Many foreigners regard having a Chinese meal as a high honor.  
 
 
