Many short-sighted women wear contact lenses because they think they are more attractive than spectacles. Some also think that vision feels more natural with contact lenses. However, contact lenses are not suitable for everyone. People suffering from high blood pressure are better off avoiding contact lenses, whilst those with arthritis may have trouble handling contact lenses and placing them in their eyes. A bad environment filled with sandy wind, powder, dust, or volatile chemicals in the air can be dangerous for contact lens wearers. Lazy bones and kids are also unsuitable candidates for contact lenses since they require more care than glasses. 
Contact lenses on the market can be categorized to two types: hard contact lenses and soft ones. The hard ones, which are also called rigid contact lenses, are thin disks made of hard plastic. Gas-permeable lenses, made of silicone and other compounds, are rigid but permit better oxygen transport to the cornea. Soft ones can be divided to soft hydrophilic ones and nonhydrophilic. Soft hydrophilic contact lenses, made of flexible plastic are larger and cover the entire cornea. Most soft, nonhydrophilic lenses are made of silicone. People may find soft lenses easier to handle because they're larger. They are also less likely than rigid lenses to fall out or to allow dust and other particles to get trapped underneath. Plus, soft contact lenses are unusually comfortable on the first wearing. They do, however, require scrupulous care. For the new wearer, contact lenses may be uncomfortable, they shouldn't be painful. Pain indicates an improper fit.  Extended wear enables people to wear them for several days without removing them. However, for the sake of health, doctors advise people to choose daily wear rather than extended wear. Your room needs airing, by opening windows frequently, and your eyes also need airing by removing your contact lenses every day. 
Wearing any kind of contact lenses poses the risk of several complications, including cornea ulceration from an infection that may lead to a loss of vision. No venture, no gains. Before you set your mind to replace your eyeglasses with contact lenses, take these risk to considerate and then figure out if the benefits outweigh the risks. If a wearer of contact lenses experiences discomfort, excessive tearing, vision change or eye redness, lenses should be removed immediately. If the symptoms don't resolve quickly, the person should consult an eye doctor. 

