The "F" word. No, not that one used for cursing, but the one that is just not cool to use in Britain. Yes, it is "feminism" but what does it mean? And why is it so often misunderstood or simply dropped quicker than a hot plate the minute anyone brings it up in conversation? 
There is very little feminist comment or debate in the public domain in Britain. Magazines, TV programmes and books aimed at young women are chock-full of hot tips on fashion, skin care, and diet. There is a barrage of articles on how to be better in bed, how to please your man and how to get the perfect body in 10 easy steps. But, the space available for feminism is limited. It does not sell.There are many different types of feminism, but each springs from the notion that men and women are equal and should be treated as such, from the home to corporate headquarters to government offices. 
First, we have radical feminists - those who hate men in spite of their supposedly splendid glory and think that women are oppressed victims of a patricentric society. Next, we have the second wave feminists - those involved in the movement in the 60s and 70s who gained fame by refusing to wear bras or even burning them in public. This was when feminism really took off and was the epitome of all things political and revolutionary, in part because it was allied with protests against the Vietnam War and in support of civil rights for blacks. It is this group that the general public normally have in mind when they think of feminists.This is mainly because they were so visible - marching to reclaim the night, raising consciousness, protesting at Miss World or other beauty contests, and rejecting the traditional view of femininity. The third wave is the modern version. It includes a variety of viewpoints and came into being in the early 90s. Third wavers are part of Generation X, women who grew up with feminism and had no notion of a world without it. Theirs is a radically different world from that of their feminist mothers and they see things differently. They often refuse to apply old theories to their own situation. They are less likely to oppose pornography and less likely to follow that old rallying cry - the personal is political. 
Then there is pop-feminism, or spice-girl feminism: girl power! Feminism as a fleeting fashion trend. Take your pick , Julia Roberts as a feminist icon or Madonna as the woman we all aspire to; feminism filtered down for younger girls among the masses who are influenced by pop culture. Finally, there is post-feminism, which is in keeping with post-modern trends. Here, feminism is dead and gone. It had it's time, now it's over. There's simply no need for it: we have gone beyond feminism and all women need to get ahead and be successful is their own determination. Margaret Thatcher is the obvious icon.





¡¡