West German economic experts in the wake of a Group of Seven meeting agreed that  Economic and monetary union of the two Germanys would benefit the world economy as a whole and  also welcomed such a development.
The Group of Seven (leading industrial countries) meeting in Paris  took a very positive view of German rapprochement and thought it could contribute to better world economic growth and 'a reduction of imbalances in Europe'as the final communique put it. "That judgment is fully justified,"West German analyst Ulrich Hombrecher said. "West Germany is going to have to import a lot more to cope with the needs for economic development in East Germany." Hombrecher, in charge of analyses of business conditions for the West LB Banking Group, was referring to the fact that West Germany has frequently been criticized for its huge trade surpluses. He pointed out that the reconstruction to be undertaken in East Germany with massive West German financial aid will generate enormous demand for both consumer goods and industrial equipment.  he commented that demand would come West Germany's way but this country would be unable to meet it alone and would pass on a good part of that demand to other countries.Dresdner Bank economist Rainer Schroeder said that the East Germans,for instance, would be wanting to buy large amounts of television sets and video cassette recorders in a nutshell, products that West Germany would have to import from Southeast Asian countries, as it already does to meet its own demand." He thinks that the newly industrialized countries, such as South Korea and Taiwan, will benefit strongly from the new demand. But Hombrecher says that "all the same, the European countries will profit the most." His reasoning is that to modernize the East German economy and set up subsidiaries in what is now East Germany, West German firms will have to buy more semi-finished industrial goods. And the usual West German suppliers are in European countries. It is even possible that the West Germans will increase machine imports. To be sure, they are the world's leading producer in this sector, by far.But for some months now, the booming West German machine-building industry has been operating at capacity. "Companies are going to be unable to fill additional orders, so they will go to other countries," Hombrecher says.
