If you're a busy man, then lunchtime may be the only time you have to train and maintain a healthy body. That is, assuming you aren't the type to work out early in the morning or after work, like most people. A one-hour lunch break is more than enough time to carry out an adequate workout routine, but when you need to squeeze in time to actually get to the gym, eat lunch and change, then a one-hour workout becomes a 20-minute workout. Just follow this simple lunchtime workout plan and you'll be able to maintain a healthy body and still have time to do the things you enjoy before and after work. The best part is you won't even need to shower since the routine isn't too demanding, therefore perspiration will be minimal. 
Remember that this workout routine is not intended for advanced trainers seeking muscle growth. It is designed to maintain a healthy and good-looking physique. Make sure you eat a healthy snack at least 60 minutes before your lunch break, and eat your full meal right after your workout. Cardiovascular and lower body: Your cardiovascular sessions should consist of a half hour daily walk, which can easily be done outdoors. Simply lace up your quality walking shoes and go for a stroll around the block. Go out regardless of the weather; just make sure to dress adequately. An effective alternative to going outside is walking up and down your office building staircase. Stair-climbing will work your leg muscles and increase your heart rate at the same time. A 30-minute walking session five times a week is enough to work your entire lower body and cardiovascular system. To maintain a constant progression, try to increase your pace on a weekly basis. Set goals and gradually increase your distances. For example, go around the block six times instead of five in a 30-minute time span, or climb the staircase 10 times instead of 9. If possible, alter your cardiovascular sessions: use the staircase one day, and walk around the block on other days. Upper body: After your 30-minute aerobic session, return to your office space and begin your upper body workout by doing a few basic stretches. Find a clean space on the floor (spacious enough to fit your entire body) and carry out the following full-fledged pushup workout to tighten your whole upper body. Check out the pushup routine to keep you fit on your lunch break.



     
 
