Do you see New Year's Eve as a great time to make resolutions you will inevitably break? You're not alone. However, a University of Washington study by Elizabeth Miller and Alan Marlatt found that a full 63 percent of people do stick to their primary resolutions for at least two months. It can be done. Here are some reasons why we don't keep our resolutions past January.
Unrealistic goals are a real killer for achieving change. Instead of cutting "all sugars and carbs" from your diet or deciding to "exercise every single day," consider moderation. Unless you have health constraints, an occasional carb can be a reward, especially after you've created an attainable exercise plan for your busy schedule. Also make sure the resolutions on your list are purely for you not your partner, your family, or your friends. If you're not doing them for yourself, you won't end up doing them at all. Being impulsive might spice up a romance, but where resolutions are concerned, less is more. Several excellent ways for 'setting yourself up for resolution failure' are not planning out your resolutions until the last minute or making them based on your mind set on New Year's Eve. Planning, then assessing what obstacles may inhibit your goals  will help you evaluate what changes you need to make. Take off your overachiever cape and toss it aside. Too many folks overwhelm themselves by attempting several big life changes simultaneously. Choose one or two achievable goals that introduce positive changes into your life instead of forcing yourself to quit all of your bad habits at once. The confidence you gain by following one new healthy life pattern can later be parlayed into ditching another unhealthy one. Miller found that confidence was the key underlying factor in people creating true change. These words are the enemies of goal attainment. More healthy, less weight? What does this mean in real terms? Those who fall off the resolution wagon often neglect to quantify goals or set deadlines. If you want to feel healthier, write a list of what that means to you and work from there.If at first you don't succeed: This old axiom is so true, yet we do ourselves a great disservice by not making sure to "try, try again." If you sneak a snack, leave work early or indulge that TV craving, it doesn't mean you have to abandon your commitment. Persistence is key. Miller discovered that only 40 percent of people polled achieved their goals the first time around. Seventeen percent succeeded after more than six tries. It's a mistake to blame yourself if you fail. Instead, look at the barriers that were in your way. See how you can do better the next time and figure out a better plan to succeed. You do get to try again 

