When the first Academy Awards were handed out on May 16, 1929, movies had just begun to talk. That first ceremony took place during a banquet held in the Blossom Room of the Hollywood Roosevelt Hotel. The attendance was 250 and tickets cost $10.Unlike today's ceremony, suspense was in short supply. The suspense which now touches most of the world at Oscar time was not always a characteristic of the Awards. At first the winners were known prior to the Awards banquets. Results were given in advance to the newspapers for publication at 11 p.m. on the night of the Awards. But in 1940, guests arriving for the affair could buy the 8:45 p.m. edition of the Los Angeles Times, which announced the winning achievements. As a result, the sealed-envelope system was adopted the next year and remains in use today. Since the earliest years, interest in the Academy Awards has run high, if not at the modern fever pitch. The first presentation was the only one to escape a media audience, but by the second year enthusiasm for the Awards was so high that a Los Angeles radio station actually did a live, one-hour broadcast. The Awards have had broadcast coverage since. For 15 years the Academy Awards Presentations were banquet affairs held, after the first in the Blossom Room, at the Ambassador and Biltmore hotels. The custom of presenting the statuettes at a banquet was discontinued after 1942. Increased attendance and the war had made banquets impractical, and the presentation ceremonies have since been held in theaters. The 16th Awards ceremony was held at Grauman's Chinese Theater and was covered by network radio for the first time and broadcast overseas to American GIs. The Awards stayed at Grauman's for three years, then moved to the Los Angeles Shrine Auditorium. Two years later, in March 1949, the 21st Awards were held in the Academy's own Melrose Avenue theater. For the next 10 years the annual Awards were held at the RKO Pantages Theater in Hollywood. It was here, on March 19, 1953, that the Academy Awards Presentation was first televised. The NBC-TV and radio network carried the 25th Academy Awards ceremonies live from Hollywood with Bob Hope as master of ceremonies and from the NBC International Theater in New York with Fredric March making the presentations. The Awards remained at the Music Center until 1987, when they returned to the Shrine Auditorium for the 60th and 61st Awards. Subsequently the Awards moved back and forth between the Shrine and the Music Center. The Shrine Auditorium, with seating for 6,000, was used mainly to accommodate as many Academy members as possible; the Music Center seats only about 2,500. The Awards returned to Hollywood for the 2001 (74th) Awards Presentation at the state-of-the-art 3,300-seat Kodak Theatre. 

