Swords are classified as double-blade weapons. They can be further divided into single and double swords, long and short swords. A sword is made up of a sword tip, sword edge, flat of blade, hand guard, handle, sword head and sword tassel. Usually the length of a sword is about 3 Chi (approximately 1m), but it should be based on the user's stature. The principle is that the length of the sword is supposed to be equal to the length from the practitioner's hand to his or her eyebrow. Some sword practitioners get special swords made to suit their various needs.The use of the sword can be traced back to as early as the Yin Shang period.At the beginning of the Qin Dynasty, the sword became very popular, but the shape of the sword was quite different then. Qin swords were made of bronze.Bronze swords are shorter and heavier than modern swords.Bronze swords became the prevailing weapon that time mainly because they were better for thrusting and cutting. The very first records of fencing date back to the Spring and Autumn Period, and to a lady named Yuenu. 
Swords have always been considered sacred and holy, mainly because Chinese people tend to associate swords with religion, sacrificing and power. Therefore, Chinese people believe that swords are the symbol of sanctity, and are closely related to one's social status.Sword-making technology and the art of using swords greatly influenced many foreign countries, especially China's neighbors. Chinese fencing spread into Japan a long time ago. As early as the Han Dynasty, the Japanese started to produce falchions and swords following Chinese methods, leading later to the advent of the Japanese Falchion. Kendo also was greatly influenced by Chinese fencing. The history of the sword is more than 3000 years old. The 'Yuenu Sword' form in the Spring and Autumn Period is a summary of the principles of fencing. After the Three Kingdoms period, the role of the sword was not as important as before. Instead, the sword became an instrument in people's daily exercises. Fencing then, developed many schools, each with its particular style, like for instance Taiji, Wudang, Drunken Swords and so on. Each of them is still important today. The sword is categorized as a double-edged weapon, and has been dubbed the 'king of blade weapons' in China. The use of the sword can be traced back as early as the Shang Dynasty. During the ¡°Spring and Autumn¡± and ¡°Warring States¡±periods, people mostly fought with swords. Men were proud to have swords with them as they symbolized masculinity. As a result, swordplay was developed dramatically. In the Han Dynasty, fencing prevailed in royal families, and many sword players were famous for their swords. 

 


 
