Jilin is the second largest city in Jilin Province, and is the only city in China which has the same name as its province. It served as a major political and economic center in northeast China for centuries, and was the capital of Jilin Province in the first half of the 20th century. 
Abounding in scenic spots and historic sites, Jilin is one of the best-known tourist cities in China. The most famous attraction is Songhua Lake, 15 kilometers southeast of the city center. It's a man-made lake that was formed in the 1940s by damming the Songhua River winding through the city proper to build the Fengman Hydropower Station. Covering some 700 square kilometers, the lake area provides a panorama of clear waters, majestic mountains, imposing peaks, dense woods and fantastically shaped islets. Before the winter freeze sets in, the vast expanse of water is as blue as the sky and dotted with white sails, all in perfect harmony with the azure sky and white clouds mirrored in the limpid water. The lake is surrounded by meandering mountain ranges, which are covered with luxuriant forests, and are paradise to hundreds of species of herbs, birds and wild animals. On pleasant days, you can take a boat to enjoy a number of scenic spots scattered around the lake area. And as the water teems with dozens of kinds of fish, you can tuck into a delicious fish banquet after feasting your eyes on so many beautiful scenes. In winter, the snow-covered mountain slopes turn the area into a popular place for winter sports enthusiasts. It has miles of cross-country ski tracks and some super slopes for downhill skiers. A cable lift whisks you to the top of the slopes in just eight minutes. 
Another famous tourist attraction in Jilin is Beishan Park, in the northwest of the city. There are two peaks in the park. At their feet lie three beautiful lakes. In summer the lakes are decorated with gorgeous lotus blooms, filling the air far and wide with a pleasant fragrance. Exquisitely built pavilions, pagodas, corridors and terraces are scattered among the mountains. 
On the Eastern Peak is a group of Buddhist and Taoist temples that were built some 300 years ago, during the Qing Dynasty. A temple fair is held in the park in May every year, when you can enjoy all kinds of folk art performances and local delicacies. 