The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences is a professional honorary organization comprised of over 6,000 motion picture artists and craftsmen. Though most famous for its yearly awards, the Academy's general goal is the advancement of the arts and sciences of motion pictures. Within that, the Academy fosters cultural, educational and technological cooperation among its members; it provides a forum for various branches of the industry; it represents the viewpoint of its members; and it encourages educational activities between the professional community and the public. What it does not do is promote economic, labor, or political matters. Organized in May 1927 as a nonprofit corporation, its original 36 members included both production executives and film luminaries. From its founding until 1946, when it moved into a building in Hollywood, the Academy occupied a number of rented offices. In December of 1975, the Academy dedicated its seven-story headquarters at 8949 Wilshire Boulevard in Beverly Hills and for the first time in its history, the Players Directory, the Margaret Herrick Library, the Samuel Goldwyn Theater and the administrative offices were all under one roof. The rapid growth of the holdings of both the Margaret Herrick Library and the Film Archive eventually made a separate facility necessary. In 1988, a 55-year lease was arranged with the City of Beverly Hills for the conversion of its historic Waterworks building in La Cienega Park into the new home of the Academy's film research facilities, now known as the Center for Motion Picture Study. Membership in the Academy is by invitation of the Board of Governors and is limited to those who have achieved distinction in the arts and sciences of motion pictures. Some of the criteria for admittance are: film credits that reflect the high standards of the Academy, receipt of an Academy Award nomination, achievement of unique distinction, earning of special merit, or making an outstanding contribution to film. Members represent 14 branches: Actors, Art Directors, Cinematographers, Directors, Documentary, Executives, Film Editors, Music, Producers, Public Relations, Short Films and Feature Animation, Sound, Visual Effects, and Writers. Candidates for membership in the Academy must first receive the endorsement of the appropriate branch executive committee before their name is submitted to the Board of Governors for approval. The Board of Governors also may invite to membership members-at-large and associate members.

